---
original_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10055
sync_time: 2026-04-05T01:07:19+00:00Z
repo_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero
type: PullRequest
status: open
number: 10055
title: Implement daemon sandboxing using Linux Landlock LSM
---
# Implement daemon sandboxing using Linux Landlock LSM
author: ovhpse
created_at: 2025-08-24T08:10:56Z
status: open

Hello,

This PR implement daemon sandboxing using the Linux Landlock LSM (https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/landlock.7.html). The primary goal is to enhance the operational security of node operators. The option is opt-in to not break existing configs.

I minimally touch the existing code, most of the new code is in `landlock.cpp` and I fail to see how I could impact users that don't choose to enable Landlock.

If Landlock is activated and the system does not support it, or if any error occurs during activation, the daemon will exit with a clear error message. Since users enabling `--landlock` expect increased security, silently continuing without it would be misleading.

Please note that while we can run on a non Landlock enabled kernel, ~~we cannot build on a kernel without Landlock. As Landlock was first introduced in Linux 5.13 which was released in 2021, I didn't want to increase the code complexity further by allowing to build on a non Landlock kernel~~.

This implementation use Landlock for filesystem and IPC sandboxing. I voluntarily skipped network sandboxing as I fail to see how we can make something else than a very wide policy for the Monero daemon. We handle different version of Landlock at runtime as advised in the Landlock documentation.

As Landlock only restrict permission for the current thread and its children, I ensure we are single threaded after Landlock activation. This check will prevent a future regression from silently disabling Landlock if the Landlock activation code is moved after the single threaded phase.

Because access to OpenSSL config files is needed, a significant portion (~42%) of the code is dedicated to OpenSSL configuration parsing. My first choice was to just have a block of static paths that we will add if they exist. I didn't like it as I felt that I won't cover some distribution with exotic OpenSSL paths.
But in the end, this make the implementation way more complicated. Even a long list of paths would be shorter, and they would be also way more comprehensible if something doesn't work as expected.

I tested the following things:
 - That Landlock is effectively enabled via `bpftrace` (anyway I got many denials during development)
 - That it works since the first start of the daemon in a fresh node: `monerod --landlock --non-interactive`
 - That it works with and without log rotation
 - To connect and synchronize a wallet to a Landlock enabled node
 - Built successfully on Linux 6.15 and 6.8

Made with the help of AI but not "vibe coded".
