---
original_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10077
sync_time: 2026-04-19T01:14:30+00:00Z
repo_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero
type: PullRequest
status: open
number: 10077
title: wallet: more robust reorg handling for multisig info messages
---
# wallet: more robust reorg handling for multisig info messages
author: jeffro256
created_at: 2025-09-11T09:21:31Z
status: open

Partially fixes an issue where reorgs cause multisig info messages to be dropped. This triggers the `multisig_export_needed` exception when attempting to sign multisig transaction sets. This commit accomplishes this by making the `m_multisig_rescan_info` and `m_multisig_rescan_k`: A) structured by output pubkey instead of by index into `m_transfers`, and B) persistent across multiple calls to `refresh()`. So if a received enote is temporarily reorged out of the chain (e.g. when Qubic mines an empty block on a selfish fork), the multisig info originally attached to that enote can be recovered after an arbitrary number of refreshes (as long as the wallet is not closed). Hopefully this improves the UX of Monero multisig apps by requiring fewer round trips to participants during sync and signing.

Potential (not implemented in this commit) improvements which require greater changes to the wallet:
* Save `m_multisig_rescan_info` and `m_multisig_rescan_k` in the wallet cache so that this fix works even when the wallet is closed between refreshes. This is a backwards-incompatible change to the wallet cache file format.
* Have the multisig info messages index partial key images and L-R values by its associated output pubkey, not its index into its local copy of `m_transfers`. This is a backwards-incompatible change to the multisig messaging protocol.

Further tests incoming.
