---
original_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10157
sync_time: 2026-04-19T01:14:30+00:00Z
repo_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero
type: PullRequest
status: merged
number: 10157
title: cryptonote_core: cache input verification results directly in mempool
---
# cryptonote_core: cache input verification results directly in mempool
author: jeffro256
created_at: 2025-10-10T16:06:38Z
status: merged

This replaces `ver_rct_non_semantics_simple_cached()` with an API that offloads
the responsibility of tracking input verification successes to the caller. The
main caller of this function in the codebase, `cryptonote::Blockchain()` instead
keeps track of the verification results for transaction in the mempool by
storing a "verification ID" in the mempool metadata table (with `txpool_tx_meta_t`).
This has several benefits, including:

* When the mempool is large (>8192 txs), we no longer experience cache misses and unnecessarily re-verify ring signatures. This greatly improves block propagation time for FCMP++ blocks under load
* For the same reason, reorg handling can be sped up by storing verification IDs of transactions popped from the chain
* Speeds up re-validating every mempool transaction on fork change (#10142)
* Caches results for every single type of Monero transaction, not just latest RCT type
* Cache persists over a node restart
* Uses 512KiB less RAM ($8192 * 2 * 32B$)
* No additional storage or DB migration required since `txpool_tx_meta_t` already had padding allocated
* Moves more verification logic out of `cryptonote::Blockchain`

Furthermore, this opens the door to future multi-threaded block verification
speed-ups. Right now, transactions' input proof verification is limited to one
transaction at a time. However, one can imagine a scenario with verification IDs
where input proofs are optimistically multi-threaded in advance of block
processing. Then, even though ring member fetching and verification is
single-threaded inside of `cryptonote::Blockchain::check_tx_inputs()`, the
single thread can skip the CPU-intensive cryptographic code if the verification
ID allows it.

Also changes the default log category in `tx_verification_utils.cpp` from "blockchain" to "verify".

To run the benchmarks for large mempool block propagation, simply change the `ENABLED` variable in `bench_p2p_heavy_block_propagation_speed()` to `True`, then run the `p2p` functional test. You can then
compare performance against the `master` branch.

Depends on #10156, #10172
