---
original_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10358
sync_time: 2026-04-05T01:07:19+00:00Z
repo_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero
type: PullRequest
status: open
number: 10358
title: [DO NOT MERGE] FCMP++: ed25519 output -> (pre-leaf) tuple in preparation for insertion to the curve tree merkle tree
---
# [DO NOT MERGE] FCMP++: ed25519 output -> (pre-leaf) tuple in preparation for insertion to the curve tree merkle tree
author: j-berman
created_at: 2026-03-11T21:39:56Z
status: open

Builds on top of:
- #10345
- #10338

This PR builds on the FCMP++ crypto building blocks to introduce higher level functions that take as input an ed25519 output (specifically the pair of output public key and commitment), and returns objects that will be turned into leaves of the curve tree merkle tree.

The two core functions in this PR are:
1. `output_to_tuple`
    - Function to convert an `{output pubkey, commitment}` to an output tuple `{O,I,C}` in preparation to insert the output tuple into the curve tree.
    - `O` = torsion cleared valid output pubkey checked for identity.
    - `I` = key image generator.
    - `C` = torsion cleared valid Commitment checked for identity.
    - None of `{O,I,C}` should have torsion nor == identity.
    - This change also introduces the `OutputPair` variant, which can either be Legacy or Carrot V1 types. Legacy outputs are not checked for torsion at consensus, and use the legacy biased hash to point fn to derive the key image generator `I`. Carrot V1 outputs **are** checked for torsion at consensus, and use the unbiased hash to point to derive the key image generator `I`.
    - Also notable is that the `OutputTuple` struct is compatible over the Rust FFI. Hence its inclusion in the new `fcmp_pp_rust` lib introduced in this PR.
2. `output_to_pre_leaf_tuple`
    - A `PreLeafTuple` is an object composed of "ed25519 derivatives" that are the intermediate objects needed to convert an output into full-fledged leaf tuples efficiently.
    - We'll be able to batch invert these derivatives later on when deriving Wei x and y coordinates.
