---
original_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/4050
sync_time: 2026-04-05T01:07:31+00:00Z
repo_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui
type: PullRequest
status: merged
number: 4050
title: Feature: sync in the background with just view key when locked
---
# Feature: sync in the background with just view key when locked
author: j-berman
created_at: 2022-10-19T19:33:52Z
status: merged

Pairs with https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8619

- In a wallet's settings, a user can check "Sync in the background when locked". This setting is not supported for view only or HW wallets.
- When checked and the wallet is locked, the password dialog indicates "Syncing in the background...". The wallet wipes the spend key from memory and continues syncing without it.
- NOTE: without this PR, today's GUI ALREADY syncs in the background when locked. This new setting ensures that the wallet wipes the spend key from memory when syncing when locked. Even if the setting isn't checked, the wallet still syncs in the background. Perhaps there is a cleaner way to portray this feature in the UI than "Sync in the background when locked"
    - When the wallet is locked, the spend key ideally *should* be wiped from memory by default. The reason I did not make this the default behavior (and the core reason why this setting is introduced as a toggle in this PR) is to minimize impact if something goes wrong with the implementation.
- NOTE2: even after the spend key is wiped from memory, **the wallet password remains cached in memory**. The wallet password can be used to decrypt the spend key which is stored on disk.
- This PR only implements Option 1 described here https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8619. Option 2 described in that PR is not exposed to the user from the GUI.
- If a CLI/RPC wallet sets up a background wallet with a custom password (Option 2 described in the monero repo PR), then the GUI can still open the corresponding full wallet for that background wallet, and the GUI will process that background cache on open and will write to that background wallet on lock.
    - This leaves room on the table to implement a desktop syncing gadget (e.g. that lives in the system tray) that uses Option 2 from the core PR. Idea: run a script that auto-opens a CLI background wallet on startup, and when the user opens their GUI, it auto-stops that CLI wallet and will then automatically process the background cache on open.
        - Keep in mind using Option 2 in this way would likely leave a plaintext view key stored on disk.
 
 TL;DR this PR brings 2 core benefits:
 - Marginally safer syncing while locked (the spend key is wiped from memory, but the wallet password remains in memory).
 - A clear path to a background syncing process that uses just the view key to sync (and e.g. lives in the system tray).
